---
title: "Analysis of Covarience"
date: 2018-12-11
tags: [R Programming, ANCOVA, Anova, Data Science, Statistics, Data Analysis, Hypothesis Testing]
header:
  image: "/images/NathanPhillips.jpg"
categories: DataScience
---
Analysis of the change in a person's libido with respect to the dosage of viagra using ANCOVA(Analysis of Covariance).

This project pertains to the Analysis of the change in a person's libido with 5 levels of dosage of viagra, controlling the effect of partner's libido using R Programming.

Data Summary: The data set contains 3 attributes, namely dosage, libido, and partner's libido. 

First, we check if the independent variable and the covariate are independent of each other: Perform an ANOVA taking covariate as the outcome and the independent variable as the predictor. 
Null Hypothesis: The mean of the partner’s libido is the same across all 3 viagra groups.
Alternate Hypothesis: At least one of the mean is different from the rest of the groups.
We observe the p-value to be 0.1577 which is greater than the alpha of 0.05. Hence, we observe that the mean is the same across all three viagra groups. Hence we fail to reject the null hypothesis and conclude that partner’s libido can be used as a covariate.

R by default uses sequential or type I sum of squares where the predictor is evaluated only after any other predictor before it is evaluated. To overcome this issue, we use type III sum of squares. In this case, the effects are evaluated by considering the effects of all others in the model(covariate). We also introduce contrasts in this model, without which the type III sum of squares will not be accurate.

After taking into consideration the partner’s libido as the covariate in the viagraModel,
Null Hypothesis: The dose of viagra does not affect the person’s libido after considering the effects of the covariate, the mean is equal across the groups.
Alternate Hypothesis: The mean of at least one of the dose groups is different from that of the others.
When the effect of the partner’s libido is controlled for, the p-value of the dose is 0.027. Hence, we reject the null hypothesis. We observe that viagra has a significant effect on a participant’s libido.



Please refer the file ANCOVA_Report for the detailed project report here: [**ANCOVA**](https://github.com/SurajSajjan/ANCOVA/blob/master/ANCOVA_Report.pdf){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" }